my dishwasher is making a grinding noise
what could be the cause and more
importantly what is the solution
detergent can cake over the strainer
inside of the pump I don't think that is
the cause
clean out the drain there could be
pieces of broken glass or plastic in
there that grind when the water is
flowing down the drain what else could
cause the noise there might be debris
inside the chopper or the pump could be
wearing out I'll put that on the list of
parts it is reasonable to replace cut
metal shavings from a worn out pump make
that noise absolutely especially if
shavings rub against other components
the fan blade might be the problem a
loose fan blade will make a weird noise
but rarely grinding though a heater fan
water inlet valve or other components
may wear out and start making noise all
of those repairs are costly compared to
a dishwasher overflowing and flooding
the house or wearing out to the point
that it acts like shrapnel in the washer
it isn't that much money how could the
grinding closet to overflow when the
pump no longer grinds and ceases it
might not be able to pump water out of
the washer when the valve breaks it may
not be able to stop the flow of water in
attack of the dishwasher the grinding
noise in the back room was only a hint
of the horrors that awaited them at
least you have warning but the unit
should be turned off while I wait for a
repairman to come by and with little
kids I go through a load of dishes a day
I wonder if you have small toys like
beads or Hot Wheel wheels in the
dishwasher drain how could that happen
how do bow ties dried pasta bangles and
beads end up in your dryers lint catch
how did your kids get small Lego toys
stuck in their ears okay
okay with little kids piece parts end up
everywhere at least you know the weird
noise isn't a bunch of unsecured bottles
and sippy cups rattling around in the
dishwasher but it could easily be a
suction nozzle or plastic piece from one
stuck in a drain or trapped against a
motor die in a very noisy death